******************
**F1 F2 F3 F4 F5**
******************

::

	BC = {F1 | F2 | F3 | F4 | F5} NS <bc_id> <float1> [float2]

-----------------------
**Description / Usage**
-----------------------

**(DC/R_PHASE)**

This boundary condition format is used to set a constant phase function field values at
node sets. Please see “phase#” equation types for a description of the variables. Each
such specification (for each field being used) is made on a separate input card. These
boundary conditions must be applied to node sets. Definitions of the input parameters
are as follows:

============================= ===========================================================
**{F1 | F2 | F3 | F4 | F5 }** Two-character boundary condition name (<bc_name>)
                              that defines which phase field variable is being set. There
                              are a maximum of five addtional level-set/phase fields.
**NS**                        Type of boundary condition (<bc_type>), where **NS** denotes
                              node set in the EXODUS II database.
<bc_id>                       The boundary flag identifier, an integer associated with
                              <bc_type> that identifies the boundary location (node set in
                              EXODUS II) in the problem domain.
<float1>                      Value at which the phase field unknown will be fixed on this
                              node set.
[float2]                      An optional parameter (that serves as a flag to the code for a
                              Dirichlet boundary condition). If a value is present, and is
                              not -1.0, the condition is applied as a residual equation.
                              Otherwise, it is a “hard set” condition and is eliminated
                              from the matrix. *The residual method must be used when
                              this Dirichlet boundary condition is used as a parameter in
                              automatic continuation sequences*.
============================= ===========================================================

------------
**Examples**
------------

Following is a sample card which applies an phase field boundary condition to the
nodes in node set 100, specifically an phase field-3 value of 1.0.
::

   BC = F3 NS 100 1.0

-------------------------
**Technical Discussion**
-------------------------

This boundary condition finds most of its use in the Phase Function interface tracking
algorithm where it is used to fix the value of the color function at an inlet or outlet
boundary. The phase function fields were put in to supplement Goma’s base level set
capability to provide the ability to model multiple (more than two) materials. We don’t
anticipate that these boundary conditions will be used much. Nonetheless, this
condition allows Dirichlet conditions to be applied to each of the five additional level
set fields.



--------------
**References**
--------------

GT-026.3
